So in the last lecture we learn how we can use conditionals with re-act just using normal Javascript
code.
And it's the same for lists.
Therefore let's say we have never stayed here and add a new elements property to it which is an empty
array initially.
Now I will add a new method and or change name but add element maybe.
And then there I now want to change this state.
So I will call set state again pass a javascript object and I only want to change the elements here
now.
So I will set elements equal to you and now I can access my old elements so this state elements and
I will actually cut this and store it in a constant year.
So elements like does this state elements so that I can now just Xs are all named as old elements to
be more precise.
So I can now access old elements and I can call the concat method a normal javascript array function
to add an element to this array and get back a new array.
So not push this would change the old array I don't want to do that and want to change the state in
an immutable way.
So concat and Steelman and gives me back a new array.
And here the element I want to add is old elements laying plots one just like in the future example
to have an incrementing number I add.
Well with this I called this stat said state.
Now I can add a button here to my GSX code.
This button will say new element and I will add my own click listener here to execute my method with
this add element and bind this for the same reason as here with the change name method so that this
inside this method here always refers to the class also at runtime.
If I had control Enter NOW and click new element Well nothing happens of course because we're not outputting
anything.
So let's output something.
And again with the same logic as before I can go into my render method here and add my list for example
which now just refers to my list of elements so this state elements.
And now I can use the map method.
Also normal javascript method I can use and on a race to do something with each element in this array.
So here what I want to do is and I will use the E6 arrow function for this I get each element and and
that's just a normal function just E6 error arrow syntax here.
So we got the arguments and then the function body.
So for each element I want to simply return NUJ X piece.
So a list item with this element inside of it that is what I return for each element in disarray and
that is then stored in this latest variable.
So it's simply just a couple of items in J.S. X code India and here.
And of course now I want to output this list so I can go into my returned GSX code add unordered list
there.
And then there simply output list.
This one here.
If an out control enter we don't see anything here but if I click this you see it gets updated and again
might look strange but it's just you react J.S. way of doing that Knauf to recreate that list if we
check our console.
We see that we get a warning here that we should key our elements.
So we should add keys to these elements so that reactivates may keep track of them because to react
they all look the same.
Just a couple of list items.
So in order for us to update our Dahlman the best way possible so that it doesn't have to rerun the
full list on every change you make.
We should assign keys here.
We do this by simply adding the key property and the key is simply Shippey a unique identifier.
Here in our case that can simply be the element itself because it's a incrementing number so definitely
unique and therefore perfectly fine.
You may use anything which has a unique identifier and that doesn't have to be a number it could also
be a string.
If you do it this now and I output this again you will see that if I cleared the console so that you
can really see I'm not cheating.
We don't get the warning anymore.
So now we successfully put the list with a key.
So that reaction Yesus able to identify our individual items.
Now correct you would say that we already have quite a lot of code for this simple app and that it probably
gets hard to manage all this code if that grows even more.
Now that is why you typically create a couple of components and not just one.
Feel free to optimize this right now.
We will later have a look at multiple components again.
But before doing so I want to show you how you can also style your components here.
So let's dive into this in the next lectures.